---
layout: page
title: WoMO 2015
---

<hr>
p=. <a href="#topics">Topics</a>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;<a href="#topics">Dates</a>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;<a href="#submissions">Submission instructions</a>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;<a href="#pc">Program Committee</a>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;<a href="#organizers">Organizers</a>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;<a href="#previous">Previous editions</a>
<hr>
<br>

p=. *Ninth "International Workshop on Modular Ontologies":http://iaoa.org/womo/ (WoMO 2015)*

p<>. Modularity, is an important enabling technology for knowledge repositories and collaborative knowledge development environments. In formal and applied ontology, modularity is central to reducing the complexity of designing and understanding ontologies, and to facilitating ontology verification, reasoning, maintenance and integration.

p<>. This workshop continues a series of successful events that have been an excellent venue for practitioners and researchers to discuss latest and current work on theoretical and practical aspects of modularity in ontologies, bringing together an interdisciplinary crowd of researchers from various subareas of AI spanning knowledge representation, reasoning and logic (description logics, first-order logics, context-based reasoning, rule-based reasoning, automated theorem proving) and web and knowledge-based repositories and information systems (ontologies, semantic web, linked data) as well as researchers from philosophy, logic, cognitive science, and linguistics and from various application domains.

<div id='topics'><a name='topics'></a></div>
h3. Topics

p<>. Topics of interest to the workshop are modularity in ontologies in the broadest sense. Submissions are welcome irrespective of the ontology language of interest (ranging from informal ontologies such as taxonomies, glossaries, folksonomies, and conceptual models, to formal ontology specified in languages such as RDF(S), OWL, SKOS, first-order logic, Common Logic). Papers may touch on any aspect of modularity, including but not limited to:

* *Philosophical and cognitive aspects of modularity*;
* *Theory, algorithms & implementations:*
** Notions of modularity such as conservative extensions, locality-based modules, reachability modules, etc.
** Module extraction and decomposition algorithms
** Logical relations between modules and modular ontology languages
* *Modularity in reasoning:*
** Modules for incremental and distributed reasoning
** Modularity for schema reasoning (e.g. classification) or.data reasoning (e.g. query answering)
** Modularity and explanations
** Modularity and context-based reasoning
* *Modularity in ontology engineering:*
** Reuse, publishing/sharing, and linking of modules
** Collaborative ontology engineering, ontology versioning and evolution
** Knowledge and ontology repositories, libraries
** Knowledge integration, ontology mapping and alignment
** Ontology design patterns
** Visualizations
* *Modular ontologies in applications:*
** Case studies and evaluations
** Issues in particular domains, e.g., life sciences, physical sciences, geosciences, social sciences, etc.
** End-user applications

<br>

p<>. We highly value contributions from all perspectives, including those with a focus on computational, philosophical, cognitive, linguistic, and social aspects. Additionally, contributions that deal with modularity as it arises in specific applications or domains is of interest. We particularly encourage submissions that apply methods beyond classical knowledge representation, such as machine learning and natural language processing approaches, to help further the understanding of modularity.

<div id='submissions'><a name='submissions'></a></div>

h3. Paper submission guidelines

p<>. Submissions can be long papers (up to 8 pages) or short papers (up to 4 pages), formatted using the "AAAI style":http://www.aaai.org/Publications/Author/author.php, submitted in PDF format no later than the submission deadline. All submission are handled through "Easychair":http://www.easychair.org/conferences/?conf=jowo15. Use the WoMO track for your submission.

p<>. All submissions will be peer-reviewed by members of the program committee of the individual workshops. Accepted papers will be made available in the form of a joint workshop proceedings.

p<>. The workshop will be open to all attendants of IJCAI'15 and its other workshops. At least one author of each accepted paper must register for the workshop and present the paper.


<div id='dates'><a name='dates'></a></div>

h3. Important dates

Paper Submission:  April 27, 2015
Notification:  May 20, 2015
Camera ready: May 30, 2015
Workshop: July, 2015, date TBA

<div id='pc'><a name='pc'></a></div>

h3. Program Committee

* Ana Armas, University of Oxford, UK
* Eva Blomqvist, Linköping University, SE 
* Arina Britz, Meraka Institute, CSIR, South Africa
* David Carral, Wright State University, USA
* Chiara del Vescovo, BBC Wales, UK
* Aldo Gangemi, Universite Paris 13-CNRS-Sorbonne Cite, France and ISTC-CNR, Italy
* Michael Gruninger, University of Toronto, Canada
* Pascal Hitzler, Wright State University, USA
* Edward Haeusler, Pontifical Catholic University of Rio de Janeiro, Brazil
* Agnieszka Ławrynowicz, Poznań University of Technology (PL)
* Francisco Martin-Recuerda, Universidad Politecnica de Madrid, Spain
* Till Mossakowski, University of Magdeburg, Germany
* Adrian Paschke, Freie Universitaet Berlin, Germany
* Denis Ponomaryov, Institute of Informatics Systems, Russia
* Alexandre Rademaker, IBM Research, Brazil
* Thomas Schneider, University of Bremen, Germany
* Luciano Serafini, Fondazione Bruno Kessler, Italy
* Barry Smith, National Center for Ontological Research, University of Buffalo, USA
* Jeffrey Smith, BAE Systems, UK
* Dmitry Tsarkov, University of Manchester, UK
* Ivan José Varzinczak, Universidade Federal do Rio de Janeiro, Brazil
* Marcella Vegetti, Universidad Technologica Nacional, Argentina
* George Vouros, University of Piraeus, Greece
* Dirk Walther, TU Dresden, Germany


<div id='organizers'><a name='organizers'></a></div>

h3. Organizers

"Torsten Hahmann":http://www.spatial.maine.edu/~torsten/index.shtml
Assistant Professor, School of Computing and Information Science
University of Maine, Orono, ME, USA
"Ken Baclawski":http://www.ccs.neu.edu/home/kenb/
Associate Professor, College of Computer and Information Science
Northeastern University, Boston, MA, USA
"Adila Krisnadhi":http://knoesis.wright.edu/researchers/adila/
Wright State University, USA
Universitas Indonesia, Indonesia
"Pavel Klinov":http://www.uni-ulm.de/en/in/ki/staff/dr-pavel-klinov.html
Research Fellow, Institute of Artificial Intelligence,
University of Ulm, Germany

<div id='previous'><a name='previous'></a></div>

h3. Previous WoMO Workshops

"WoMO 2014":http://womo2014.bio-lark.org/
The 8th workshop in the series was co-located with the 8th International Conference on Formal Ontology in Information Systems, FOIS 2014. It was held in Rio de Janeiro, September 22-26, 2014.
"WoMO 2013":http://lat.inf.tu-dresden.de/~dwalther/womo2013/
The 7th workshop in the series, was co-located with the 12th International Conference on Logic Programming and Nonmonotonic Reasoning, LPNMR-13, Corunna, Spain, September 2013.
"WoMO 2012":http://www.informatik.uni-bremen.de/~ts/womo2012/WoMO_2012/Home.html
The 6th workshop in the series, was co-located with the 7th International Conference on Formal Ontology in Information Systems, FOIS 2012, Graz, Austria, July 2012.
"WoMO 2011":http://www.informatik.uni-bremen.de/~okutz/womo5/
The 5th workshop in the series, co-located with ESSLLI 2011, Ljubljana, Slovenia (week 2), following an introductory ESSLLI course on notions of modularity in ontologies (week 1).
"WoMO 2010":http://www.informatik.uni-bremen.de/~okutz/womo4/
The 4th workshop in the series, co-located with FOIS 2010, Toronto, Canada.
"WORM 2008":http://dkm.fbk.eu/worm08
The 3rd workshop in the series, co-located with ESWC 2008, Tenerife, Spain, entitled `Ontologies: Reasoning and Modularity', with a special emphasis on reasoning methods.
"WoMO 2007":http://webrum.uni-mannheim.de/math/lski/WoMO07
The 2nd workshop, co-located with K-CAP 2007, Whistler BC, Canada.
"WoMO 2006":http://www.cild.iastate.edu/events/womo.html
The 1st workshop on modular ontologies, co-located with ISWC 2006, Athens, Georgia, USA.
